In this video we'll look at the syntax for declaring pointer variables.
You should not feel very comfortable declaring variables we've been doing it throughout the course.
Well we declare pointer variables in exactly the same way except that we add the asterisk prior to the
variable name.
In this context the Astros does not function as a mathematical operator.
It serves to declare the pointer the way you read these declarations is right to left.
So the first example int pointer is a pointer to an integer double pointer is a pointer to a double.
Notice in this declaration I place the asterisk next to the type.
Both styles are equivalent.
And the compiler doesn't care.
But there has been a longstanding argument among C++ programmers about which is better.
I always declare my pointers with the asterisk next to the name and that's how I do it in this course.
But I wanted to make you aware of the equivalence styles.
Char pointer is a pointer to a character and string pointer is a pointer to a C++ string object just
like all variables.
If we don't initialize our variables they will contain garbage data.
In this case all the pointer variables declared contain garbage data.
So let's see how we can initialize pointer variables.
In C++ it's very important that you always initialize all pointer variables before you use them.
If you don't initialize a pointer variable it will have garbage data.
In this case that garbage data represents an address since that's what a pointer contains.
So you can think of an uninitialized pointer as pointing anywhere.
So if we use it we could be accessing memory that we have no business messing around with.
We don't even know what that memory is.
Initializing pointer variables is just like initializing Nonpoint to variables.
We can use an initializer list syntax and these examples were initializing the pointer variables to
zero.
That's what NULL pointer represents.
This means that we're initializing the pointers to point nowhere.
That's very different from pointing anywhere.
We can also initialize pointers to actually point to a variable and we'll do that in the next video.
Let's review what we just talked about since it's very very important to understand.
Always initialize all pointer variables uninitialized pointers contain garbage data and point anywhere
no pointer was introduced in C plus plus 11 and it represents address zero.
Which means that the pointer is pointing nowhere.
Use NULL pointer to initialize your pointers unless you initialize them to a variable to a function.
This nulls out the pointer.
I know I've repeated myself several times in this short video.
I'm doing that for a reason.
After a long career programming with many languages that have pointer variables I can tell you that
one of the most common pointer related errors that I've seen in code reviews is uninitialized pointers.
Most of the time this didn't cause a problem but the potential for trouble is there.
So always initialize your pointers in the next video.
We'll see how we can access the address of the pointer and store addresses in pointer variables.